Here are the relevant news articles:

**Where will international students go if not the US?**
The Trump administration's crackdown on international students has left them and their families in 'chaos', according to The Hill. Secretary of State Marco Rubio has suggested capping international student admissions at 15% of total enrollment, and 'aggressively revoking visas' for Chinese students. As a result, students are looking to universities in Asia and Europe, with China being a likely winner. Simon Marginson, a professor at the University of Oxford, said China will become 'significantly more attractive' to students from the Global South. Chinese students are likely to stay home rather than trying their luck in the US, with Karishma Vaswani at Bloomberg saying the US is becoming a 'far less inviting option' for students. The losses will be felt not just on US campuses but in local and state economies, with foreign students contributing $44 billion to the American economy during the 2023-24 school year. As David L. Di Maria, the vice provost for global engagement at the University of Maryland, Baltimore County, said, 'America is putting its economic engine at risk' by pushing away foreign students who study science and engineering. 'This will hamper his administration's 'America First' goals for the economy, science and technology, and national security,' he added.
Original language: en
Publish date: June 02, 2025 07:17 PM
Source:[The Week](https://theweek.com/education/international-students-us-alternatives-visas-colleges)

**Colleges are slightly less diverse as admissions officers seek ways to adapt post-affirmative action**
A CBS News analysis of enrollment records shows that the first class of freshmen since the Supreme Court's ruling on affirmative action is slightly less diverse than the class before it. The share of underrepresented minority students among schools that considered race in admissions decreased by about 2 percentage points from fall 2023 to fall 2024. The drop in diversity was even sharper at the most elite colleges and universities, with a nearly 5 percentage point decrease in the share of minority students. Experts say that if the trend continues, campuses may become significantly less diverse over the next four years. Some universities are facing pressure from the Trump administration to eliminate diversity programs and remove international students, making it harder for them to maintain diversity on campus.
Original language: en
Publish date: June 02, 2025 05:51 PM
Source:[CBS News](https://www.cbsnews.com/news/colleges-less-diversity-admissions-post-affirmative-action/)

**Maharashtra Government Revises 11th Standard Admission Policy For 2025-26**
The Maharashtra government has revised the 11th standard admission policy for the academic year 2025-26, introducing changes to the minority and in-house quotas for higher secondary schools and junior colleges. According to the revised policy, minority institutions will have a 40% minority quota, which can be filled based on merit until the third regular round. The in-house quota for private higher secondary schools and junior colleges has been set at 10% of total seats, while government and local self-government institutions will have a 50% in-house quota. The changes aim to streamline the admission process and ensure equitable access to education across the state.
Original language: en
Publish date: June 02, 2025 05:04 PM
Source:[Free Press Journal](https://www.freepressjournal.in/education/maharashtra-government-revises-11th-standard-admission-policy-for-2025-26)

**U.S. House-passed tax bill weakens accountability at for-profit colleges, advocates say • Minnesota Reformer**
The U.S. House of Representatives has passed a tax bill that weakens accountability at for-profit colleges, advocates say. The bill eliminates the 90/10 rule, which requires that at least 10% of a for-profit institution's revenue comes from non-federal sources. It also removes 'gainful employment' as a goal for colleges receiving federal funds and hinders consumer protections for borrowers defrauded or facing school closures. Kyle Southern, associate vice president for higher education quality at the Institute for College Access & Success, said the bill would 'put higher education further out of reach for low-income students, students of color (and) many first-generation students.' Carrie Wofford, president of Veterans Education Success, said the 90/10 rule 'stops federal funds from being used to prop up otherwise failing college companies.' The bill would also repeal the 2022 versions of the Closed School Discharge and Borrower Defense to Repayment rules, reverting to what they looked like before the Biden administration. Sarah Austin, a policy analyst at the National Association of Student Financial Aid Administrators, said that this would 'stop future administrations from having any sort of gainful employment framework because the definitions are not even in the Higher Education Act anymore.'
Original language: en
Publish date: June 02, 2025 01:23 PM
Source:[minnesotareformer.com](https://minnesotareformer.com/2025/05/29/repub/u-s-house-passed-tax-bill-weakens-accountability-at-for-profit-colleges-advocates-say/)

**Don't let politics rule UF president decision. Just look at New College. | Opinion**
The University of Florida's (UF) Board of Governors should learn from the struggles of New College, a Florida state university that has seen a decline in academic metrics under the leadership of Richard Corcoran and Christopher Rufo. According to the annual statistics, or 'metrics,' from fall 2022 to fall 2024, New College has seen a decrease in the percentage of incoming students with a 4.0 grade point average (from 55% to 42%), a decrease in the percentage of incoming students who finished in the top 10% of their high school graduating classes (from 29% to 14%), and a decrease in the average SAT score of incoming first-year students (from 1233 to 1153). Despite increased total enrollment, the number of freshmen has only increased by 28, with the majority of new students being transfer students. Rufo has been criticized for his management style, which has been described as 'shambolic' and 'questionable.' The New College debacle serves as a warning for the Board of Governors as it decides the fate of UF, highlighting the importance of effective leadership and accountability. As Mike Sanderson, a New College alum and former editor of The Catalyst, notes, 'It's the kind of thing someone with higher educational experience might have known.' 
Original language: en
Publish date: June 02, 2025 08:09 AM
Source:[palmbeachpost.com](https://www.palmbeachpost.com/story/opinion/columns/guest/2025/06/01/uf-new-college-ono-corcoran-rufo-dei/83978369007/)

**Are Utah’s college students being poached? Inside the deep discounts one out-of-state school is offering our undergrads.**
Sheridan College in Wyoming is offering in-state tuition rates to Utah students, a move that Utah's higher education leaders see as student poaching. The college's 'Bighorn Mountain Advantage' program aims to make an excellent education more affordable to students from Utah, with a price tag of $4,800 a year on average. This is cheaper than most in-state public schools in Utah. Utah System of Higher Education Commissioner Geoff Landward said that Utah schools need to be innovative and strategic about what they offer to ensure a Utah student has an easy choice of where to attend college, and that's right here at home. The move is part of a trend where out-of-state schools are offering steep discounts to try to get Utah students, as the college-age population in the United States is declining. Utah hasn't yet experienced this demographic cliff, but it's expected to come later in the state, starting around 2033. Sheridan College is trying to boost enrollment through out-of-state numbers, and hopes students will graduate and stay in the area to work, buoying the economy. Utah's schools are not thinking about employing a similar strategy to lure out-of-state students and increase enrollment ahead of the impending cliff, outside of the natural appeal some colleges here have for non-Utah students.
Original language: en
Publish date: June 02, 2025 12:00 AM
Source:[moabtimes.com](https://www.moabtimes.com/articles/are-utahs-college-students-being-poached-inside-the-deep-discounts-one-out-of-state-school-is-offering-our-undergrads/)

**US Education in Dire Straits: Cheating is Running Rampant in High Schools, Colleges**
The use of artificial intelligence (AI) is making it easier for high school and college students to cheat on assignments. According to a Pew Research survey, 26% of teenagers used AI to complete school assignments in 2024, double the 13% reported in 2023. Education Week reported that 11% of assignments run through Turnitin's AI detection tool had been at least 20% generated by AI, with 3% being more than 80% AI-generated. Stephen Cicirelli, an English professor at St. Peter's University, shared a frustrating experience where a student submitted an AI-written research paper and then sent an AI-written email apologizing for it. Denise Pope, a senior lecturer at Stanford University, noted that cheating has been a problem for years, with 60-70% of students reporting engaging in at least one 'cheating' behavior in the previous month. However, AI use has added a new layer of complexity, with 66% of college administrators thinking it will limit students' attention spans and 59% saying cheating on campus has increased.
Original language: en
Publish date: June 01, 2025 07:00 PM
Source:[The Western Journal](https://www.westernjournal.com/us-education-dire-straits-cheating-running-rampant-high-schools-colleges/)

**STEM Students to Receive Scholarships in Public and Private Universities**
The Supreme Council of Universities has approved a fixed percentage of scholarships for students of the Science and Technology Schools (STEM) in public and private universities. The council has allocated a specific percentage of scholarships for STEM students in some programs at certain colleges, as follows: ... The council has also determined the conditions for STEM students to receive scholarships in public universities, including that the scholarship will be determined after the first year and that the student must maintain a good grade average to continue receiving the scholarship. In private universities, 5% of scholarships are allocated to STEM students, effective from the previous academic year 2024/2025. This decision will continue for future years unless new rules are established by the council. 'This is a great step towards supporting talented students in STEM fields,' said an official. 'We hope that this will encourage more students to pursue careers in science and technology.'
Original language: ar
Publish date: May 31, 2025 07:12 PM
Source:[بوابة فيتو](https://www.vetogate.com/5422206)

**Forecasted foreign student drop catastrophic for US colleges: Study**
A new study by the National Foundation for American Policy suggests that if international and immigrant students are not factored into the equation, enrollment numbers at American colleges and universities will drop by 5 million by 2037. This would have a 'catastrophic' effect on many universities, according to Madeline Zavodny, a professor of economics at the University of North Florida. The study found that the number of undergraduates would be about two-thirds of its current size, and the number of graduate students would plummet by 1.1 million. Zavodny attributes this decline to the Trump administration's targeting of U.S. universities for diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) programs and other practices that do not align with its mission. The administration has announced cuts of federal grant funding from institutions like Harvard and Columbia, and international students at several universities have had their student visas revoked and have been taken into custody by federal immigration agents. Zavodny predicts that both enrollment and the financial outlook of U.S. colleges could take significant hits, and that schools may need to adjust their enrollment practices to admit students they may not have even a decade ago.
Original language: en
Publish date: May 23, 2025 11:37 AM
Source:[The Hill](https://thehill.com/homenews/education/5314992-foreign-student-colleges-drop-study/)

**Business News | US Undergraduate Admissions in 2025-26: Challenges & Opportunities | LatestLY**
The US undergraduate admissions landscape in 2025 is highly competitive, complex, and stressful. With record application volumes, evolving admissions criteria, and financial pressures, students, parents, and educators are navigating a challenging system. Caroline Linger, Lead Counselor at IvyCentral.com, notes, 'A holistic approach that considers an applicant's character, personal experiences, and unique perspectives is gaining prominence.' The test-optional movement remains strong, with many schools no longer requiring SAT or ACT scores. The cost of college remains a top concern, with 98% of surveyed students and parents needing financial aid. The emotional toll is significant, with 73% of students and parents reporting high stress about applications. As the number of high school graduates is projected to decline after 2025, competition for spots at selective institutions is expected to remain fierce. Caroline Linger advises, 'To succeed in 2026, students must apply to more universities than ever before, and high school counselors should remove any limits on application numbers.' 
Original language: en
Publish date: May 21, 2025 06:12 AM
Source:[LatestLY](https://www.latestly.com/agency-news/business-news-us-undergraduate-admissions-in-2025-26-challenges-opportunities-6870461.html)

**To Become a Doctor, Denial Helps**
Despite the high rates of burnout and depression among physicians, and the looming doctor shortage, many medical students remain optimistic about their future careers. According to the Association of American Medical Colleges, the U.S. could be lacking some 86,000 physicians by 2036. Dr. Amy Waer, dean of the College of Medicine at Texas A&M University, attributes the shortage to a lack of spots in medical school, not enough medical schools, and not enough spots in graduate medical education. Some medical students, like Julia Watson, believe that their passion for medicine will see them through the hardships. Others, like Daanish Mahmood, are aware of the challenges and plan to prioritize their mental health and work-life balance. However, not all students are as optimistic, with some, like Frances Mei Hardin, planning to leave medicine due to the poor treatment they received from senior physicians. A 2023 survey found that nearly 60% of medical and nursing students do not plan on practicing clinical medicine after graduation.
Original language: en
Publish date: April 28, 2025 09:00 AM
Source:[NYMag](https://nymag.com/intelligencer/article/doctor-shortage-medical-school-denial.html)

**Opinion: SAT, ACT scores best predictors student success | Chattanooga Times Free Press**
A recent study from Brown University and Dartmouth College found that standardized test scores, such as the SAT or ACT, are the best predictors of a student's academic success at elite colleges. The study examined the academic records of students at Ivy League colleges, the University of Chicago, Duke, MIT, and Stanford, and found that students with top scores on standardized tests achieved a first-year college GPA that was 0.43 higher on a 4.0 scale than students earning a score in the 75th percentile of national results. The study also found that students with lower scores on standardized tests were 42% more likely to struggle academically. The researchers noted that standardized test scores exhibit no calibration bias, meaning that students from different backgrounds but sharing the same test scores achieve similar average levels of academic success in college. In contrast, grade-point average had relatively little predictive power for academic success during a student's first year. The study suggests that reinstating standardized testing requirements is a wise decision for colleges seeking to ensure academic success.
Original language: en
Publish date: April 25, 2025 07:00 PM
Source:[timesfreepress.com](https://www.timesfreepress.com/news/2025/apr/25/sat-act-scores-best-predictors-student-success/)

**Harvard Univ: The Ivy League teaching remedial math**
Harvard University, one of the most elite universities in the US, is offering a remedial math class for freshmen who lack 'foundational skills' in high school math basics. The school's math department attributes this to pandemic learning losses, but administrators are to blame for scrapping standardized testing requirements during the pandemic, which allowed students without basic math skills to slip through the cracks. Harvard's director of introductory math, Brendan Kelly, said, 'Students don't have the skills that we had intended downstream in the curriculum... We want to make sure that students are on a path to success starting from their first day.' The new course, Math MA, is one year long and meets five days a week. Had these students studied for the SATs, they wouldn't need Math MA. Harvard scrapped the standardized testing requirement during the pandemic, but is now bringing it back for the class of 2031. 'Reinstating this requirement brings important information back into the admissions process,' the school admitted.
Original language: en
Publish date: April 05, 2025 12:00 PM
Source:[New York Post](https://nypost.com/2025/04/05/opinion/harvard-univ-the-ivy-league-teaching-remedial-math/)

**Yes, Students Still Want to Go to College (opinion)**
Contrary to headlines suggesting a decline in interest in college, data shows that students still want to attend college. Recent positive trends include a 13% increase in Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) submissions from high school seniors, a 4% increase in Common App applications, and a 3.4% increase in fall semester enrollments. Additionally, the college completion rate has reached 61.1%, the highest level on record. These signs of demand are a 'great problem' for the US to have, as 72% of jobs will require postsecondary education by 2031. To support students, the author recommends investing in need-based financial aid, providing high-quality postsecondary advising, and keeping higher education accessible, especially for those from disadvantaged backgrounds. As the American Council on Education has said, 'higher education builds America.' 
Original language: en
Publish date: March 31, 2025 07:00 AM
Source:[Inside Higher Ed | Higher Education News, Events and Jobs](https://www.insidehighered.com/opinion/views/2025/03/31/yes-students-still-want-go-college-opinion)

**Southern States See Mixed Progress in College Affordability, SREB Report Finds | Diverse: Issues In Higher Education**
The Southern Regional Education Board (SREB) has released the 2024 College Affordability Profiles, which show that while the South has made strides in college affordability, lower-income students still face significant financial barriers, particularly at four-year institutions. According to SREB President Dr. Stephen L. Pruitt, 'SREB is committed to the idea that postsecondary opportunities must be affordable to all students.' The profiles reveal that the SREB region provided approximately 25.8% more need-based financial aid than the national average, but for families earning less than $30,000 annually, the percentage of income required for tuition and fees remains significantly higher at four-year public institutions compared to two-year and technical colleges. Education experts note that addressing these affordability gaps is crucial for the region's economic future, as by 2031, 64% of jobs in the SREB region will require a postsecondary credential. 'These reports show where our increased appropriations are working, particularly in the two-year sector, and where we need to focus next,' said a state education official who reviewed the findings.
Original language: en
Publish date: March 13, 2025 12:00 AM
Source:[diverseeducation.com](https://www.diverseeducation.com/students/article/15739894/southern-states-see-mixed-progress-in-college-affordability-sreb-report-finds)

**More high school seniors finding out which Minnesota colleges they're admitted to  --  before they apply**
A Minnesota state program called Direct Admissions is helping high school seniors discover which colleges they are eligible to attend without requiring them to apply. The program, which debuted three years ago, provides colleges with basic information about students, including their GPA, and informs students which schools they're eligible to attend. Currently, about 180 Minnesota high schools are participating, and 55 colleges and universities are signed on. State officials say the program is having its intended effects: increasing the percentage of students enrolling in college right after high school, getting them to complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA), and keeping more Minnesota high school graduates in-state for college. A bill introduced this session would require all Minnesota high schools to participate by 2029-2030. College officials say the program is especially helpful for first-generation and immigrant students, as well as rural Minnesota students. However, some school leaders have expressed concerns about the program's implementation, citing high student-to-counselor ratios and technology requirements.
Original language: en
Publish date: March 10, 2025 02:50 AM
Source:[Winona Daily News](https://winonadailynews.com/article_233b20aa-5ecd-5c09-8fd2-438fc9980c06.html)

**Standardized tests remain optional at 4-year colleges, universities in Michigan**
Since the COVID-19 pandemic, many colleges and universities in Michigan have removed their standardized testing requirement for admissions. This movement began because some applicants were unable to access testing sites for the ACT and SAT. According to Mia Murphy, chief policy officer at the Michigan Association of State Universities, 'With the pivot happening in March 2020, most students didn’t take the SAT in Michigan and even the year after that.' Most public colleges and universities have joined the Michigan Assured Admissions Pact, which guarantees admissions to applicants with a 3.0 or higher grade-point average. However, some colleges still accept standardized test scores, as they can be useful in supporting an application or awarding scholarships. Robert LeFevre, president of Michigan Independent Colleges and Universities, noted that 'None of our members that have moved away from it are looking to go back.' A report by the National Center for Fair and Open Testing found that more than 80% of colleges and universities across the country will not require applicants to submit test scores for fall 2025.
Original language: en
Publish date: February 10, 2025 12:00 AM
Source:[ironmountaindailynews.com](https://www.ironmountaindailynews.com/news/local-news/2025/02/standardized-tests-remain-optional-at-4-year-colleges-universities-in-michigan/)

